boom-boom-boom-boom
what's up dad how are you man great
thanks for coming your manner appreciate
it thank you for extending you the
invitation well I love your Instagram
it's very it's very informational and
what tell everybody what you do so
people get a handle on this yes I'm a
non-permissive environment specialist
basically I teach people how to live
move and travel in places where they
probably shouldn't be traveling you know
how to get our handcuffs how to get our
zip ties and you know I show people how
to survive in such environments my
background is in law enforcement in
Mexico so you know I spent a lot of time
down there and over the years that's
kind of led me into teaching myself how
to survive in that environment and
apparently after a while that made me
kind of a sought after as far as
teaching other people how to survive in
such environment so I've been doing that
for a while here in the US the military
law enforcement civilians oh yeah and
you started working and law enforcement
what year it's 2004 2004 you started
before everything got really crazy yes
yes so you can you can kind of trace
back where it officially kicked off by
the the start of the Felipe calderón's
presidency which is the the
second-to-last president we had he
basically said you know full-on war
against the cartels and by that time I
was kind of just getting done with my
training in northern Mexico as a police
officer and what I thought was gonna be
you know community policing and stuff
like that turned into a full-on you know
here's a assault rifle and just go climb
up on that tongue be with those military
guys and let's go arrest cartel members
oh Jesus Christ
so you thought you were just getting a
regular law enforcement gig yeah I mean
realistically there was no such sort of
kind of job description this was post
9/11 I was actually in med school and
that the economy and all over the border
with the tightened security and stuff
like that kind of went down you know
down drain and most
most of the money that I was using for
med school you know went away and you
know that in the newspaper young
unmarried individuals that don't have
any kids welcome to join type thing
young unmarried individuals with no kids
they want that specifically yeah that
was probably a big alarm Mill suitor
Center in my head but the but the but
the you know there were there weren't a
lot of opportunities for somebody my age
there that didn't have a career and I
thought it would be you know everybody
said don't go you know but yeah I what
who said that what's your friend like
but it was it to me was a challenge and
a lot of people said I couldn't do it
and I did it and then it turned into
something that wasn't what it was most
people expect the one they went into it
you know as a full-on urban warfare type
situation Wow so post 9/11 the borders
get tightened up and the economy gets
very bad in the border towns is that
what happens because people can't get
through as easily it's uh yeah
heightened security so commerce isn't uh
it's really done on both sides border
weights that you should take an hour now
would take three hours or four hours
depending on the time of day so you know
things got affected also you know a
worldwide recession a situation kind of
happened so everything kind of went down
the toilet you know I have a lot of
family in the border region and all like
most of our family businesses that that
we had you know basically kind of tanked
and that during that time so from 9/11
to here we are
eighteen years later it's been a pretty
radical change yes safe to say yes a
hundred percent change like what if you
had a like to try to describe it so I
mean basically the the part of the
country that I had most of my
experiences the baja sonora
juarez type region northern mexico
basically what happened is that all the
cartels started fighting for the most
rich drug routes on the planet one of
them of course being the city of Tijuana
so the city of Tijuana is that's the
corner of Latin America it's the most
it's the most cross border
on the planet and with that you know
there's a lot of Commerce that goes on
in that region a lot of things that ship
to Tijuana and then drop joven up into
into San Diego and a lot of people have
businesses on both sides and amongst
among all of this movement you know
there's a no giant organized crime war
going on and it used to be overt like on
the streets middle the day you would see
these cartel convoys arriving at a
restaurant and all the cartel guys
outside with their aks and stuff like
that
this was 2004-2005 error and what is the
military or the law enforcement attitude
towards that like having here so we go
back to 2004 when I first got it started
and it would look the other way
really yes look the other way and look
the other way that was specific and
instruction that you got it was one of
those things where I went there and I
got I got a firearm here you go here's
your Glock 17 here are you two magazines
here's your Mossberg 500 and you see all
those cars over there we don't ask them
for anything let them pass that's you
know we don't do anything well that
nature and then it would see members of
the military as well kind of a go the
other way type situation mm mm four do
you think that this was just to avoid
conflict or what was it because of
corruption it'sit's always corruption
I'm always at always levels at all those
types of levels down there during this
time there was a lot of corruption
things changed but you know things in a
way in some levels are always the same
mm-hmm
there was definitely some sort of pact
going on some sort of fear-based pact
during that time and when Felipe
Calderon finally said you know enough is
enough we're gonna declare war he
basically militarized a lot of the
counter narcotics efforts in Mexico so
the military went from being you know in
their in their bases or Manning stations
out there to actually actively going out
and looking for cartel cells and trying
to eliminate them right so basically
army on the street type situation
and another thing he did was basically
all of the police chief a lot of the
police sheeps around the country were
being traded out for former military
officials or military guys uh officers
one of them was lieutenant colonel is
Iola
I don't know if your maybe your
audience's audience could look him up
he's a very famous lieutenant colonel
from Mexico actually as a documentary on
and called Mexico's most uh bravest man
very pretty interesting guy he was the
one that headed us up he directed us at
the start of this these operations
against the cartels and he basically
said you know this is this isn't a
policing problem this is a
counterinsurgency problem so we're gonna
well we're gonna militarize it basically
and after he kind of took control
everything everything in it changed you
know there weren't as of the cartels
want to subvert as they were so they
started going underground so when you
joined you expected it to be regular law
enforcement when it became this
counterinsurgency militarized effort
against the cartels was there every time
you were like I gotta get the fuck out
of this job this is too dangerous yeah I
mean my generation I was part of the
seventh generation of officers going
through this this program policing and
out of my generation the first year we
had two of them in jail for corruption
charges and three dead
you know just proud of how many out of
23 guys
so I guess twenty-three guys 205 gone
five gone two of them very dramatic
that's two of them were kind of the
origins of how I got into the whole
counter abduction type thing two of my
guys got picked up outside of a hotel in
the downtown Tijuana and by by cartel
members dressed as federal police
officers the whole nine yards uniforms
the car everything cloned they got they
got asked for their papers outside and
got put into a van they found them a day
later you know
but horribly mutilated and all this type
of stuff tortured tortured you know and
that kind of you know that was the this
is real this is real and I should
probably have a you know escape plan
yeah and but it wasn't uh I didn't know
anything else basically so it wasn't
like I had something to fall back on
right and it was good pay for what it
was and yeah but fear that that's when
fear got you know this dress must be
insane yeah you're always on you know
there's a you know we always had this
thing on the on the meeting wall it said
there's no vacation even when this
vacation you know you would go on
vacation you would get your gun to go on
be caged horse yeah it was pretty insane
now have you ever been confronted yeah
yes yeah of course I mean there's no
there's the there's no it's not you know
I have a lot of friends are in military
up here in the US and it's not like it's
not like them they go off overseas and
they they do something in a different
country with different people with don't
speak the same language I was doing all
this in the place I grew up right so I
knew some of these people at time you
know I am we had every now and then I
would say hey I know that guy from when
I was a kid or we were in school
together and now he has a plate carrier
with a an ak-47 and a gold gun on his
bands right and it's like whoa and the
gold guns big giveaway all gold guns are
you know that's how you know yeah
there's some amazing websites that
document all the different stuff that
the cartel has but they love gold guns
yeah that's El Chapo got like a gold
very special gold gun when he was uh
when he was named one of the top earners
and for the Forbes list I think he got
his number on a gun and everything the
second to last time he got caught
because he got caught a lot of times and
escaped
somebody somebody in the military that
got him took it you know and it ended up
in the museum I think it's I think it's
in a museum somewhere in Mexico City
where a lot of these gold guns that's up
that's a war trophy for those guys right
so this is like a gold gun section of
the museum yes yes mostly Mexico City
Wow yeah that's pretty wild that gold
gun gold akk xlvii you know now if
everything is so corrupt down there how
does a guy like El Chapo keep getting
popped because when I when I saw his
escape yeah I was like this is hilarious
the fact this guy goes to the toilet and
then he opens a door and Boop he's in a
tunnel and on an electric scooter and
goes a mile pops up on the other side
and they had everything set up for him
with electricity like I mean you know
the I think the the thing that people
kind of don't understand about the
corruption is it's not just corruption
because people are greedy it's all good
it's also fear-based corruption so if
you don't do what I say we're gonna kill
everybody in your family even your dog
that type of thing I mean so after the
little chapo got escaped that last time
you know all of the staff at the jail
got you know put in prison and really so
they were all part of it there's rumors
that they were you know it seems like
somebody had to hear all that digging of
course you know I mean it's um only a
mile away they well it was pretty deep
yeah some some some things that should
have been patrolled weren't patrolled it
was a pretty good well made tunnel for
what it was really well made so a lot of
the people that El Chapo actually used
for these tunnel operations because the
same people that he used for the tunnels
in the border region all the active
tunnels there are somewhere you know
along the border all of those guys were
pulled in from from silver mining
companies that used to operate all over
Mexico that kind of went into the toilet
so they were looking for jobs and Wow
get a chopper out it's good job that's
for drug tunnels you know when you saw
all that shit go down with Sean Penn and
Sean Penn visiting El Chapo and
Sean Penn writing an article for Rolling
Stone lots were you like what in the
fuck is going on here
yes for a lot of some reason that might
not be you know mainly was why are they
giving him a wire to give him this
celebrity status yeah you know there's a
lot of glorification and a lot of you
know people venerating some of these
people down there you know and they do a
lot our arm you know so there's
basically giving a voice to somebody it
would be the equivalent of somebody up
here giving a voice to somebody that was
responsible for a lot of damage that
done to the US you know it's why do you
think they did that like what what what
was the roman it was it was romantic
write something about it's like here's
Sean Penn one of our biggest movie stars
yeah well one of the biggest drug
dealers ever I mean he is a Chapo down
because I've been to Sinaloa and I've
done classes there which was pretty
surreal he is uh he's a folk hero
he's uh he's he's Robin Hood basically
to these people and like witness a real
moment that I had down there striving
along this bad bumpy ride highway and
all the sudden turned into a nice that
kind of highway and the guys that I was
with told me oh yeah this is the cartel
made this highway and the back part of
it that's the government the part of the
highway
you know schools careers lawyers doctors
all their careers paid for cartel
immigration processes of people that
want to come over here sponsorships and
all the type of stuff on both sides
right so the the span of influence
that's you know that's how he kind of
got to where he was mmm he was always
helping people and he was investing in
people and these people this is these
investments would pay later on you know
in a lot of ways it sounds like he he
benefited them he benefited some aspects
of the community yeah I mean the reason
why the military couldn't get him you
people so could take eruption but
because the he was basically he had a
human shield around him you know all
these towns
odhh you know schools hospitals every
instead of Christmas town that they
celebrate the day of the Kings you know
so you would get presents Mother's Day
they would all get presents that type of
thing so why would we want to help the
military come in here and get chopped oh
he's doing this type of stuff you know
that's and that is the same all over
Mexico with some of the cartels you know
the hearts and mind carts and mines type
approach is what makes some of these
groups long-lived so how much of an
effort is there to eradicate the cartels
because if you can get a guy like El
Chapo who at least in terms of like
popularity is he at the top of the list
that's priority but at the top he's at
the top of the list as far as popularity
but when as far as like the actual drug
dealers is he at the top of the list or
they're more clever folks that hide
underground yeah there's rumors of
people above them that are still out
there somewhere that's what everybody
like that's the great conspiracy is that
like El Chapo is basically the bank
manager look it that well you know
there's a he has a compadre
you know compadre somebody that if
you're the daughter if you're the
Godfather of my my kid you're my
compadre right so he has a compadre out
there
my or sam bodda and he is still out
there right and the the the extent of
how he works and where he works is
unknown so he's more slick exactly he
tries to stay more low-key well there's
you know some people get sick with the
fame probably and you want to go outside
once that move that TV show narcos came
on yeah then every what people do I
don't I think there's a lot of people
who did not realize how crazy the life
of Pablo Escobar was yeah and what
really went down in Colombia yeah I mean
it's crazy Pablo Escobar was a single
you know he was a phenomenon in his time
and age but he was one man I'll imagine
replicating that type of insanity over
the span of Mexico and it's about eight
or nine guys you know mmm that was the
90s early early 2000s
because these guys were you know Legion
of Doom type thing where they would be
enemies but they would have
reunions and they would meet up and kind
of agree alone you know certain things
and stuff yeah just like in in the Pablo
Escobar show yeah yeah yeah so they
really do that they get together and
have meetings and sometimes they kill
each other that's that's the that's the
that's a reality you know they do and at
times or did at times because things are
currently after al Chapo
you know things kind of shifted and
change what happened
well main thing is a power vacuum and
with the power vacuum and legalization
on this side of certain subsistence
substances like marijuana
the the the pot fields are now poppy
fields yeah and new new things like like
like them now dedicating themselves to
heroin instead of instead of the weed
was that's mysteriously they're still
weed fields down there for some reason
you know you guys are way better at
making it then anybody down there but
for some reason they're still it'll
bleed fields well I think it's a lot of
access especially in the states where
it's prohibited yeah just there probably
more willing to get it to the people
it's probably it meth meth precursors
being brought in from China and to
Mexico are now being made in Mexico mmm
like in just real level stuff right and
a new a new up surging cartel down there
that is trying to overtake the Sinaloa
cartel the new generation cartel is
coming out of wall ahora and they're
kind of really militarized kind of wing
of cartel activities that are trying to
you know take control over the whole
thing
what is the plan in terms of the
government means if they can take out a
guy like El Chapo what is the plan to
eradicate all this and is there really a
plan to eradicate it or is it one of
those things where it's sort of a plan
on paper but realistically they sort of
accept the fact they're never going to
get rid of these people so I have a I
have a thing like that like basically
cuts out Catholic quatl was a feather
chirpin and I have a image of feathered
serpent biting it sale Mexico has a
problem with amnesia as
six year cycle of amnesia every person
comes in has all these plans to
eradicate the cartels president goes out
nobody likes them anymore new guy comes
in says well I have a better plan you
know and that's the cycle we always go
through yeah so it's a big issue in
Mexico yeah and current currently we
have a leftist president that doesn't
want to have anything to do with the
past administration there are motor on
the right of the spectrum his name is
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador
I'm low vocally supporting Venezuela
that that type of guy apparently he has
a good relationship with with Trump
that's what's what people say but his
whole thing was abnesti for the cartels
that's a campaign promise amnesty yes
and what does that mean exactly nobody
knows what that means
that's what he was saying that would you
have a plan for this amnesty or is it
just like a statement it was a statement
and now if you cede counter narcotics
operations throughout the country
they've the military is not as active as
it used to be well some of the cartels
are growing and influenced because of
amnesty could be you know basically I
don't see the efforts that were there
when I was active down there
Oh things change you know so I don't
know IIIi I truly think that the absurd
because we're on route of b2 to having
the most violent year in Mexico as far
as cartel related deaths right when I
got out
Tijuana had been on the top most
dangerous cities on the planet list and
I actually worked there when it was on
the top and through efforts both before
the from the government and and through
people like Lieutenant Colonel Isola he
wanna was gone off the list of most
dangerous cities in the world and now
it's again at number one right yeah you
sent me that I was pretty shocked
because you don't hear about that here
it's six murders a night you know I was
down there two days ago and it was it's
basically cartel on cartel so
they're cleaning each other out and just
bodies appear in the morning you know
bridges hung from bridges tortured shot
you know that's you know but again the
there's nobody's doing anything about it
they should you know
but kind of turning a blind eye in a lot
of ways Oh
and so with this leftist president this
guy with who has this idea of amnesty
the the people that are in charge of
handling the cartel the the military and
the police officers they've got to feel
like a little abandoned yeah or maybe
some of them I'll have a business plan
and they're working at one side so
that's a problem too yeah so so the
people did aren't nowhere you know we
have a separation of powers down there
as well so the army constitutionally
shouldn't be engaged in combatting the
cartels they shouldn't be engaged in
police roles but there were some
amendments done to the Constitution and
you know laws passed but you have to
realize that some of these people that
are fighting the cartels and a policing
type role from the military some of them
can't read right or some of them come
from rural parts of Mexico that
shouldn't they shouldn't be doing that
type of activity so you get a lot of you
know a lot of failures on that side of
the fence we do have some high-level SF
community members in Mexico that are
doing the work but they're few and far
between and then you have the federal
place which has gone through about four
or five name changes in the past you
know ten years because every time though
well not gonna call them that change
your uniform because they're all corrupt
Jesus but now they're now they're this
police right so so they just changed
appearance it changed the name you know
but like either refresh the public
opinion of it there's a famous you know
model investigation federal
investigation police called the AA fee
and they were like modern investigative
federal police it's gonna go after and
they were corrupt as hell
and they all they did was even get a
name change and all these guys got
shuffled around and literally I was like
hey I know you like what what no no I'm
I'm this now you know but there's still
the same person compromise yes yeah so
those are the federal guys right
currently they want to do like a
national national police force and
you're like wow they're gonna get new
people they're gonna be national police
force know it's the same guy change
uniform change a hat so that's on the
federal side you know so we're pretty
wanting their state side each state has
their own police force investigation
police force and a preventative type
force and these are politicized because
each state government may be opposed to
the federal government so there's a
there's some static there and I foo and
each municipality has its own police
force and they me it might be completely
different politically than the state and
federal so it must for you to have your
life on the line over there and see all
this chaos and obvious either lack of
organization or outright corruption
it must be insanely frustrating yeah I
mean the that be putting people in call
there were clearly guilty of things you
know and then seeing them come out or
the legal system down there that I got
that I had to endure you know you would
have to go and do a face-to-face with
all these people all right go into a
federal courthouse leave your firearms
behind I could do a face-to-face with
these people inside that you just got
that you just got for however many tons
of cocaine or pot or whatever and then
go outside and they're outside you know
now now I know who you are you know
there's no anonymity in that in that
regard so but you would have to sign
things you know and then seeing some of
the people that were with you working on
your side and seeing them how some of
them would fall into corruption charges
and then sue the government and then get
your jobs back but now you have somebody
who's compromised within your own unit
Wow all right so they did try a few
things to try and clean out police
forces one of them was a plan they
called a c3 plan it was like a
like a filter for police officers down
there it's still in it's still in action
but you know it's questionable if it's
effective or not
I'd saw a lot of people go through it
and later on hunt they would turn out to
be cartel guys basically they would do a
background check
FBI background check polygraph exam drug
testing all the all of these things to
see that you were you know clean to work
on these police forces the problem is
that the polygraphs turned out to be
unconstitutional to fire somebody over
them so a lot of these people got hired
back after they would fail Pollak
polygraph exam so again it's a lot of
attempts to clean it up you know and I
you would be on the on the level and all
these people won't be on the level but
they were still there so what what
percentage of people are not on the
level if you had a guess roughly I mean
I'd say would depend I'd say 30 percent
probably that's a lot look I got my
experience of the people that I worked
at 30% went on you must cherish the 70
of like family
yeah like family and you you would know
when some of these people weren't awful
level because you know I have this
running joke that I have this I I went
in with the same car that I drove out of
the office with you know shitty truck
that I had that I bought that I bought
when I you know about my own dime first
truck first car and I drove out of the
office when I quit that when I quit the
job that same day you know I drove it I
drove out of the office in that truck
but a lot of you guys would come in with
their you know Hummers and H shoes and
just weird cars or like oh wait a minute
doesn't make sense like we are working
the same office why do you why do you
have a 3-story that's so obvious though
I prove it you know yeah but but the
obviousness of it oh yeah blatant you're
driving a nice car living in a big house
and everybody else is like what yeah
there's you know there's this obviously
these of this than these unwritten rules
of you know you won't you wouldn't tell
on this guy of course but you know it's
obvious
yeah and when it came time to share
information of a certain kind or we're
gonna go over here and you would have to
turn around and look around see who was
listening you know you know you wouldn't
trust a lot of these people so how are
we gonna power gonna do our job if we
can't trust the people that are working
with us well who was it that recently
called for decriminalization they got
was it your president they called for a
depolarization of all drugs in America
to go along with Mexico so what it was
yeah
all right to do something about the
cartels yeah we're on the brink of
legalizing marijuana and in Mexico right
now like there's been a few landmark
cases and you know it's Gold Rush type
situation right now there's a lot of
companies down there that that have had
experience up here that want to go down
there right so the culture is ready for
it I think do you think that would help
I don't know when it comes to legalizing
pot up here it hasn't helped down there
as far as lowering things actually made
things kind of worse how does it made
things worse they changed they changed
the they changed what they were
producing so that the reason of the
reason why there's a heroin heroin
epidemic up here and fentanyl epidemic
up here I think has some relationship
with how things got legalized up here
and how they switched um product down
there so lighter colored heroin is
coming down from Mexico and I've seen I
bet I work with law enforcement up here
in the US doing classes and kind of you
know they send me things like what do
you think about that is that and I've
seen that lighter colored heroin pop up
in places as far our officers cause
that's you so you know because of the
color yeah the color or the smell the
consistency you can kind of tell if it's
asian or how it works it's a different
strain like it's it's a probably a
different strain and it's also the
amount of Sun it gets in the region
where it's been being grown whose height
higher altitude so it's lighter color
not a stinky I don't know but I think
it's a relationship that that kind of
relates to the legalization issue down
there they didn't affect them in the
pockets they just switched product it's
got to be it's such a strange
relationship because the reason why
these drug cartel
have so much powers because they're
selling drugs to the United States yeah
so it's like you have this connection to
this country that has this great big
wall that it wants to build and on one
side everybody's buying up all the
illegal drugs and the other side
everyone's killing everybody to try to
make and sell these illegal drugs yeah I
mean and there's a lot of holes
underneath that wall and drones your own
technology is that wall gonna help
anything
well the wall has already been up for a
few years part of it and in place like
Tijuana which is like one of the richest
drug routes on the planet and it's the
drugs are caught the same you know
it's the same it's yeah and what about
like the ocean can't they just take a
boat I've seen one large submarine in my
time working real arge like like
military size like like scientific sighs
where the fuck does somebody buy a
submarine
online apparently really yeah you can
buy a submarine you can buy a small
submarine for a small amount of money I
think the main part of the submarine
ownership is maintained maintenance that
was the reason we found it is that it
wasn't properly maintained so it sunk
yeah it it actually no it actually
floated couldn't sink oh and it had a
bunch of things hanging off behind it
but somewhere you'd scare the shit out
of me you can't see where you're going
well so there so yeah I've seen
submarines drones like a squadron of
drones with a bunch of loads on it Wow
how heavy can a drone get still fly wrap
types I've seen fool like 2 kilos on it
really yeah
so just fly in the coke over the top
yeah the only reason we I found out
about those one of those crashed in a
roadside next to the border fence were
you around when that CIA drug plane
crashed in Mexico with tons of cocaine
on it yeah I wasn't there but I was
aware of that situation what the fuck is
that about
I I mean realistically there's there's a
lot of Americans running around in
Mexico yeah that's that's that that's in
there's a lot of cowboys right
yeah a lot of people say listen we just
make this one run like the government
doesn't give a fuck about us my pension
sucks it could be you know could be you
know every now and then you know and
this is this is this isn't a secret
every now and then you would see a dude
out there that's blond tall and has a
bunch of tattoos that don't belong down
there working on the military side of
things in Mexico or some dudes doing
something in someplace and then you will
get a call you know oh they're they're
fine just you know just leave him alone
enough so who knows you know who knows
so if it's three out of ten we're
corrupt where you were it might be like
one out of ten CIA guys I mean you know
usually we would get to since I have a
pretty good spoken English I would get I
will get sent places for training or for
liaison work with some people that would
go down there and I would never know
what the hell some of these people were
from you know hmm
so who knows you know it seems like it's
very loose like there's a lot of room
for fuckery Calderon era a bush
administration era it there was a lot of
there was a lot of stuff going on Obama
administration era after the whole fast
and furious thing things kind of cut
went dark for a while yeah explain the
facts a lot of people don't know what
the fast inferences it was a they had
sold guns to the cartel under the guise
that this is the way they would track
the guns yes it seems so fishy oh I I
learned about it from CNN and I feel my
friends were killed with some of those
guns down there which is you know
everybody talks about the the US agent
that was in Mexico was killed by some of
these guns but there was a lot of you
know Mexican agents and people civilians
killed by these guns as well so there
were very specific types of guns you
know so like imagine somebody giving you
a shopping list about the types of guns
you want right including in these lists
were 50 Cal Barrett Barrett rifles and
FN five-seven s which are a very it's a
pistol with a very high velocity round
that it goes through
[Music]
soft armor like this type of stuff that
was issued to us all right so all of a
sudden we're seeing these space pistols
in the hands of the cartels and very
specific parts of the country were like
but what a preposterous idea that
they're gonna sell it to the cartel they
could track them well like that sounds
like horse shit to me that sounds like
someone's trying to make money and they
said ah we'll just say we're selling it
to them to track it well the the
suspicious part is that all of them went
to one specific cartel the Sinaloa
cartel so it sounds like such horseshit
the fact that I mean who went to jail
for that Eric Holder didn't go to jail
oh he should have he should have he
should have I mean there's there's blood
you know people died there was a I can't
say the name but somewhere in in Baja a
little girl lost her arm an agent that
was a friend of mine got killed and the
wife got killed with FN five-seven that
looked directly related to that whole
thing right so you can go to jail for
fucking tax evasion I just got I can get
away with that just think the idea that
you would run that by people and they
would go yeah good idea
yeah give them gun and to be clear I
don't know the realities of that
operation on this side people say it was
it was it was happening way before all I
know is that when that happened nobody
told us and there was definitely some
weird resentment on part of the
government down there people down there
as far as you know and and there was
some the weird conspiracy theories going
on as well down how could two not be
yeah I mean that seems like it's a
conspiracy theory right in front of your
face yeah did the fact oh yeah we just
sold them to drugs or the guns so that
we could track yeah no one's gonna die
it's not like a bad idea the main thing
you would hear is the people settlement
and fast and furious executive privilege
lawsuit between DOJ and House just this
is how it and wrapped up within the last
two weeks I guess really this is just
wrapping up yeah just some settlement on
my cuz this is from what nine years ago
Tunisia at least and the guns are still
showing up so I don't know
many of them I don't know I've never
known had what numbers but I've last
time I we found some and I actually have
images of the ones we found they were
buried in somebody's backyard inside of
a water barrel and all of them were
obviously US origin guns and like what
do you mean all of them had very
specific accessories on them that nobody
else in the world puts these accessories
on their guns at the US because they're
pretty ridiculous accessory like what
kind of accessories things that had
things letters on them like see you in
hell type things partnerships calls
monasteries girls of the big one yeah
and that's hilarious that a cartoon
skull has from a Marvel comic book has
become a gigantic part of SpecOps yeah
it is it is pretty ridiculous
well the main rumor down there is like
with conspiracy theory wise and you
would hear all sorts of things you know
because down there there's there's no
such thing as top-secret clearance in
Mexico you know there's like there's
like hey don't say anything you know
that's that's about it you know
so you'd hear crazy crazy things a main
thing was that the US was planning an
engagement you know they're
destabilizing the region so they could
put boots on the ground oh Jesus you
know that was the look like a Cohen
conspiracy theory going on the u.s.
invaded Mexico yeah how fucking crazy
would that be well you know as far as a
reaction on the side of Mexico
people want Pierre then this is again
this is purely speculation and and weird
rumors that I would hear people were
planning to do poisoned drug loads on
that side to create a health crisis in
the US as a reaction oh that was pretty
like when I heard it's like well he was
talking about this yet you know and so
full-out war almost could be you know
and then you would try and see well
who's doing that you know cartels so the
cartels of the government are the same
thing like what's going on right right
right
and again this is just weird stuff you
what accredited there's a crazy
perspective right the cartels would
poison the drugs
punish the Americans for the military
invading the country yeah yeah so to
create a to create a health crisis in
the US so they would you don't have to
go back Wow I mean ours you know
they know how many guns they brought
over I've heard all sorts of numbers we
never got told the same number nearly
2,000 firearms were illegally purchased
for 1.5 million according to the DOJ
inspector general report fuck hundreds
of guns related recover the United
States of Mexico yeah may 50 cals were
so the the and it saw was an escalation
with the cartels right so we they would
get ak-47s and we would get German mangy
threes that were say around the same
caliber and we could fight back
right mm-hmm and then all of our
leadership started rolling around an
armored vehicle so let's get 50 cows to
you know make holes in these armored
vehicles so so it was all it's always
been an escalation now he's just Christ
you guys were giving 50 cows so you
could shoot holes in the armored
vehicles yeah though the cartels were
getting them first and then then we had
to get them because they were rolling
around in armored vehicles so Mad Max
type armored vehicles they would make
they would first first they would make
them like homemade Mad Max armored
vehicles that they found a few of their
online somewhere one of them was called
la bestia which is like a giant they all
that all that was missing was the guy
with the guitar on the back of it you
know and they would use these to roll
into town and like how would you fight
that right and then you had to get a 50
Cal or get the military to shoot them
from the sky oh my god there's a there's
a famous video from somewhere down in
Mexico where they shoot a Vulcan rifle
down at a cartel member in a car number
vehicle but then you see well you know
well checkmate checkmate government
against the cartel but then you realize
that the cartels like the new generation
cartel Guadalajara have actually downed
helicopters in wall ahora military
helicopters because they have
anti-aircraft capabilities jeez
Christ so that then you now you're like
checkmate cartels you know that's that's
how where does this go like where does
it escalate that's that's that's the
thing that you know you you have to
think about the so killing and death is
not at the industrial level it's that is
being done in Mexico not just killing
but you know disappearing bodies making
body disappear I was I was a I was
around when they got the stewmaker the
stewmaker was a guy that worked for the
Sinaloa cartel in Tijuana and he would
get rid of bodies using caustic soda
right so he would get bodies every night
and he had these basically these
industrial level just barrels of it just
going his caustic soda it's a chemical
mixture yeah you can get most of the
components at a hardware store basically
it dissolves bodies you know it would
get get some of this mixture he said and
interviews that he got trained by
Israelis that how to do that so who
knows is that true or not but in the
night he said he would get rid of you
know dozens of bodies and just get rid
of everything you know DNA bone
everything so there's a lot of families
on Mexico that are looking for their
kids for years and there's just no way
of giving them a body and the amount of
youth that goes into cartel work and
just gets you know kill there and it's
just it's a whole generations and whole
towns of women and old men you know
they're out there which is the coal
generation is just God you know all the
men in the gun I've gone to gone to a
few small towns where like they looked
at me like youth you know a young man
it's like so it's rare at some places
that it's because the men are all
getting killed all getting got got in
the you know in the cartel operations
and killed or just recruited now
forcefully recruited or voluntarily but
you know whole generation is just wiped
out now the people in your line work the
people that are boots on the ground to
really understand the problem
what is the thought in terms of what
could be done to fix this
I think main thing is any sort of any
sort of plan any sort of plan to fight
the cartels that involves just a
six-year plan won't work because that's
what that's what the main problem has
been with Mexico each president were
your presidential each term six years
each president comes in with a six-year
plan he either does very good or does
really bad and then it gets forgotten
and another one comes in and there's
also definitely an addiction to money
from the US side for countering cartel
operations there's a blonde Metis that
it's called it's a international plan
where the u.s. pays for counter
narcotics type operations in Mexico so
there's an addiction to that money on
the side of the government so there's a
lot of interest for that to keep going
you know so they don't want to resolve
the problem as much they want to in some
ways you know you know they refuse to
professionalize the police horses down
there they don't put enough effort in
that in that regard you know good people
that are there that I know there's some
amazing guys down there doing amazing
work and they get passed up for a
promotion because they don't they don't
have any they don't know anybody high
level they don't work for either side of
the gang you know so a lot of these
people just get cast aside you know and
you know it's kind of hopeless in that
regard you know a lot of a lot of the
good guys when they get when they come
out of the job there's only a few
options to them right I had I had
options but a lot of the guys that go
out of job don't so they get recruited
by the cartels did you did anybody ever
attempt to recruit you yeah yeah you get
offers no you get offered any offers
there's a there's a famous there's
famous corrido
which is like a Mexican folk song called
I'm going to talk about my past right
and it's pretty interesting song it's
about a cartel guy that used to work as
a cop and somebody from his past
approaches him and says you want the
kids
haleh you want to want to do a job
that's what you would get you know
people within the police force is asking
you you want to want to work on the side
mmm that was the entry you know and or
you know we'll pay you this much what is
it like when you say no it's pretty
pretty hard it's a it's a it's not it's
not specifically saying no but just
saying I'm not the one to ask for this
and you say you know I'm not the one
that asked for this you know what I'm
I'm only in this for the money of for my
paycheck and you know I don't want to
risk anything so and how do they leave
that they don't they're not happy
usually you know so you get on a list
sometimes and you know something that
follows you but it's a much better thing
than actually going getting into some
one of these guys pockets no once you
take something you're theirs
right like the mom like the mob you know
a lot of thing it's a lot of these guys
actually took but you know they have a
lot of these cartels down there they
kind of venerate the whole gangster era
the US it's like a thing oh so it's like
a thing they looked up like look up to
you know right so like you see a lot of
gold-plated Thompson machine guns take
picture with him so there's a lack of
professionalizing the police force yes
and that you think is a conscious effort
I think I think it's uh so keep them
fairly incompetent I think so you know a
lot of ways we we were we were as a
group that were the group that I used to
work with we there was a lot of efforts
to professionalize us to like getting
getting that a career path to actually
being you know making it a career
there's no right now where I used to
work there's no pension no there's no
retiring Wow
if you want to get any sort of a credit
for anything the credit the credit
companies won't even touch it because
you're too high-risk you know to our
risk cuz you must get shot yeah Wow yeah
well it is the most dangerous city on
the planet right
so they they wouldn't touch us and
realistically culturally being a cop in
Mexico is you know male porn actor and
cop or probably a lot of same range as
far as shame you know wow yeah
do I I wouldn't eat at any restaurant
that we didn't know the people you know
because it would spit in their it
reasons a lot of he has escaped it was
hate or by the hate cops so much they
bike as a as a culture in Mexico the
police police culture of Mexico has
earned a lot of guys working both sides
a lot of guys being you know again the
whole you're gonna be a cop because you
know somebody in there and people that
shouldn't be in any sort of public
service mmm-hmm so there's a lot of
corruption again a lot of corruption a
lot of a lot of things done wrongly by
the cops a lot of abuses you know a lot
of human rights violation type
situations so it's earned you know so
the big shift over there in terms of
crime turns with cartel crime occurs
first with September 11th the tightening
of the borders then it starts to ramp up
after that because of what the the
government first started targeting
certain cartel heads you cut one head
off Hydra and yeah to head spawns who
had three heads pop up power vacuum
power evacuate will fight to try to gain
power you know and the cartels realize
you know what that we are standing on
the riches drug routes on the planet so
we should probably you know start
fighting over them
yeah and also what also what happened is
that you know a lot of these people is
something that people Americans kind of
don't don't get yet this isn't a Mexican
problem anymore specifically as far as
the cartel violence going on a lot of
these people had their kids up here in
the US in the 90s a lot of these cartel
guys you know Hill Chapel has kids had
kids in the US and a lot of these people
are now coming of age and
so cartel influence in the u.s. is a
thing you're gonna start seeing if
you're already seeing it but you're
gonna see more of it because a lot of
these people are actually american-born
the US citizens now working in tandem
with any sort of interest down there so
that's gonna be the new shift you know
and you know people are sometimes kind
of horrified by some of the stuff that I
post up some of the cases down there
people can look up the los Pollos gang
in in Southern California there were
actual cartel group that would kidnap
people in the US
dressed as federal agents in the US and
drag them back down to Mexico now this
happened a few books almost I think
about nine years back but this is
happening the u.s. no it's not something
foreign anymore you know a lot of people
want to think that you can build a wall
and keep all that down don't get me
wrong
build that wall I have nothing against
it but selling it as a security thing
it's just I don't I don't think it makes
that much sense and a lot of in a lot of
the parts where it's it is up the
violence is rampant on both sides but if
the the argument would be that if the
wall didn't exist then it would be too
easy to come back and forth look at all
spies yeah it could could you know but
again drug tunnels catapults yeah drones
are drugs and arms of like kidnapping
people and a lot of other things that
you cut off at least some of the vehicle
I guess yeah I get it I get it and I
think again I'm not against the wall you
know build a wall that I interviewed a
guy I do articles for a few magazines
and I interviewed a guy who was a Sakai
out you know Quixote
he moves people from the border and he
said this about the board's asking them
to the interview about the border wall
he said it's good for business you know
you make something seem like it's harder
when it is it and it's good for business
so you say listen I can't get to over
3,000 was gotta be five yeah it's
tighter
yeah or fly them to Canada and they walk
down which is that was his one of his
one of his new favorite methods
so northern United States probably got a
lot of Mexicans now oh yeah the
candidate boat board is hilarious it's a
path yeah it's a carved out 100-yard Pat
we we put pictures of it up the other
day like look how hilarious this is the
difference in Mexico and Canada Canada
they make it easy to know where the
border is like just get across here eh
and be fine snow Mexicans you know yeah
it's really strange well I mean it's the
the amount of creativity and
problem-solving that goes on on the
criminal side you know mm-hmm the if if
your best plan is a wall of a secure
wall these guys have been working
against that best plan for the past 20
years so they are they're already way
ahead of the curve mmm you know in that
regard you know there was an interesting
time in John and people can look this up
drone technology had I had an upsurge in
innovation in Tijuana out of all places
in the world for a time you know mmm
like why that's funny what could be done
to radically curb this you know like if
you were the king of the world
said Edie what are we going to do first
off legalizing sums up some of the
substances would probably help that
would help a lot that's a pretty good
question but even some substances that
are legal like fentanyl is essentially
legal because you can get a prescription
for it but you're never gonna have like
fentanyl just over the counter it's just
too deadly you know another thing that
you know I think about and that's a very
good question I wish I could answer I
think everybody wishes they can answer
it and everyone just sort of like shrugs
and so the the cartels aren't just a
drawed field business mmm they also have
money that is in property and legitimize
businesses they work in human
trafficking like they actually it used
to be you can cross that border and go
to the desert and cross it
yourself but now you have to pay a toll
protection rackets across the both sides
of the of the border sex trafficking
piracy like you name it they have they
have hands in it right so so they just
essentially took that drug money and
just did a crime business he's
diversified they've been diversified for
a long time like yeah there was a
recently two three three cartel members
from Sinaloa in Malaysia released out of
all places so you just think about that
to Sinaloa cartel guys somewhere in
Malaysia got caught somewhere and now
they've been released and they gotta
like a hero's welcome in Mexico to get a
hero's welcome oh yeah
really let's see the law that you know
that getting Sinaloa's pretty that's uh
I have this nickname for Mexico I call
it the upside down you know because
everything's basically upside down now
right and yeah these guys got funny
thing is that the Mexican government was
involved in their release and then they
you know sent them back and you know
hero's welcome what were they doing all
the way over there and in that part of
the world diversifying diversifying so
no one has a real plan here goes
Malaysia pardons three Mexicans on death
row oh they were on death row damn you
want to talk about a kick-ass Corydon
like a folk song song about either those
guys are probably gonna get an amazing
folk song you know so there's a lot of
Romanticism time yeah I mean it's it's
romanticism its religion there's
definitely some some occultism involved
in a lot of the higher-ups into these
cartels I remember when I found out
about the narco music these what are
those songs called corridos yeah the
folk songs there's a lot of them you
know there's a and they all of them have
a secret language in them sometimes or
they're all a history of something that
happened and you pay somebody to just to
make one for you or somebody makes it
for you and then if you do a good career
song for somebody and the rivals will
send somebody to kill you
so like even even the musicians are on
other side of the cartel kind of
groupings as well it's pretty weird I
don't but it's Wow
so if you're if you're for the wrong
cartel if you make a song you kind of
have to like go into hiding or or not
play any in any places where the rival
cartels no territories are oh Jesus
Christ will they come to your territory
to come get you if you yeah no yeah
there's there's finna be up in a few
high level singers Mexican folk singers
that got their you know killed for
messing with girlfriends with cartel
members or for singing the wrong song in
the wrong place so that's in the culture
and and the religious occultism the
cartels have as well you know it's a
pretty interesting thing
things like Santa Marta they're the the
death cult that is kind of in different
parts of New Mexico it's like think of a
very dark
Freemasonry type thing right certain
levels you have people that are part of
the part of that cult from the cops to
the military to the cartels it's kind of
to prostitutes to drug dealers it's
interesting how how that kind of also
has an influence on on the way some
people go into very risky businesses
like being cops or cartel guys and how
they wear or the empower themselves by
some of these occult iconographies you
know like or or there's the Trinity is a
hisui small Delta which is uh it was a
folk hero from turn over the centuries
you know law basically a bandit that got
caught and killed and he turned into US
eight and now there's a giant Church to
him in Sinaloa with a bunch of money
stuck to the walls and and pictures of
guys in the US with like a f-150 truck
or a Hummer and like Thank You Mel Berta
I'm living the dream now because of you
Wow two roadside altars with with a
statue of the Virgin Mary and then you
look behind her and there's a Reaper
behind it because it's a
hidden santa marta shrine and they do
that so the military doesn't destroy
them because they have standing orders
to destroy these things which shouldn't
be but you know kind of religious
persecution but they actually do that
it's so it's so different than the
united states in a lot of ways it is i
mean i don't think we understand like
all the stuff i think the average person
has no idea about the songs no idea
about the culture of it all they have no
idea the depth and how deeply it's
connected society down there i mean the
death the death cult wardship is i think
you could probably trace it back to the
aztec days alright so there's definitely
when you see all these highly graph
highly violent bloody cartel executions
and and and things like that i don't
know i mean yeah i think there's some
sort of genetic memory from that of
those times it's not abnormal physically
for some of these people do that type of
thing you know ripping somebody's heart
next to a tree is of there's videos of
that stuff out there
I remember getting contacted by people
that I knew on this side of the border
in the u.s. that were very curious why
all these people from the Middle East
were looking at all these cartel
execution videos and then a few years
later you had Isis doing some high
production execution videos then we're
inspired by the cartels you know wow so
he's not interesting that we don't think
about that we think about oh my god look
at Isis they're cutting people's heads
off why will they learn from Mexico
which is connected to us by lambs right
they're fucking walk they're like you'd
have to fly to Afghanistan you could
walk there it's not Libya it's near La
Jolla yeah it's you go to La Jolla you
see these fucking multimillion-dollar
estates with his gorgeous view and
everyone's driving Ferraris and Porsches
20 minutes drive you're in Tijuana yeah
the most violent city on the planet
right now that's so crazy
yeah and when I go to San Diego that's
one of the first things I think is how
what a juxtaposition how crazy it is
that this is the border to Mexico and
it's all military San Diego is filled
with fucking seals and Rangers and
Marines
basses it's just all military down there
sits so military influence and it's
right next to the most violent dangerous
city on planet earth more than Karachi
more than Pakistan we were as we were
insured by MetLife and the MetLife agent
said said something along those lines
like you're better off going to
Afghanistan or Iraq than you know
working here basically numbers-wise
and I was like thank you for that you
know that felt that felt like a good pat
on the back but it seems like they're
getting cartel on cartel crime
yeah fused with regular person crime so
but that's how it always starts you know
usually starts off and again this goes
back to everything cyclical down there
that that snake eating its tail so you
get cartel on cartel crime and then they
finish each other off and then they
realize well now now what do we do so
they started producting people extortion
just for money just extortion comes into
play you know protection rackets cross
us guy and now they're very bold that
now they're at the party somewhere and
somebody looks at them funny so they
come back and they shoot up the whole
party I like your daughter she's pretty
hot I'm gonna steal her and if you do
something I'll kill you and you're never
gonna see your daughter again that's how
it starts you know that's that's how it
starts kind of growing just bold brazen
cruel that's how you get it in
sociopathic that's how you get say get
to that point and then again I
experienced it back in the 2006 era and
I saw it get into all the way to when
the whole of the municipal police were
they basically the army surrounded the
municipal police office of the police in
Tijuana and they took all their guns and
a few of them were taking on a plane
ride to Mexico City and there for a few
weeks there was no armed police in
Tijuana and the municipal armed police
imagine somebody imagine somebody
disarming the whole LP all of the LAPD
and just having the army in there
instead you know wow so you would see
you would see these events and then
things calming down you know the only
success story
as far as us as far as the city coming
back from the brink was Tijuana with a
wouldn't all that like the raging drug
war went down lieutenant colonel Lisa
all of the guy that I used to work with
he took numbers down like everybody down
in Mexico he had got hired then on to go
to Huaraz to try and replicate his
success the only successes were there
because he basically treated the problem
as a counter insurgency problem not a
policeman problem mmm and he had he got
nine attempts on his life the last one
took the use of his legs and he's
currently currently running for mayor of
Tijuana believer huh
and he's he's in a wheelchair but he
still I wouldn't wanna want to mess with
that guy
Wow yeah we were Fatma myself and some
numbers on my family are actually
helping out with his campaign that he's
you know he's got a is one of his
campaign offices got shut up shut up
recently so is there any plans or the is
there any push to try to treat the
entire problem as a counterinsurgency
problem to replicate the success that
they had in Tijuana no it's it's uh that
was a solution brought in by the right
side of the political spectrum in the in
Mexico so it's it's a no-go right now
because everything's still left this guy
just got in office he's he's has a few
months in so yeah he just got into
office so so you got five and a half
more years of this dude we're in for a
ride that's all I can say yeah kindness
doesn't seem to work when it you're
dealing with cartels it seems like no
you give him a hand a little take your
feet that's that was that said Mexican
say ah man it for you to have been in
that business and to sort of be
connected to about side of it now it did
it seemed like does it seem I mean it
must be incredibly frustrating but it
also must feel futile like you've wasted
time almost because not there's no no
progress is ever going to be made I have
a you know have a weird experience that
I had
burned about 2 acres of pot somewhere in
Baja right towards the end of my career
and then things happen politically a
bunch of sheiks a bit Jacobs over the
office I got called in and the director
at that of the institution that I was in
at that time was a shady character and I
decided to assist you know what my my my
mom had just passed away and that kind
of affected me a little bit a lot of a
whole lot a bit you know and starting a
family and stuff like that and you know
I said you know what this is this is not
worth it so I left quit my job handed
everything in um people were suspicious
about why I did it you know
let me probably found $1,000,000
somewhere in your writing or shit like
that right so I had to leave in a hurry
you know got a few threats gladly I
gladly I had luckily had some great
people on this side of the border
friendships that I developed for a long
while and they helped me out you know I
went to Denver about two weeks after I
got done with the job and old lady
handed me a special cookie at one of the
dispensaries and I saw the people
walking in you know and it's like this
is this what I've been you know right
burning and chasing people in the middle
of the night and looking at drug planes
and violence and all this lady with a
cookie now it's a store it's a it's a
beautiful store in the room there's a
store in front of La in front of the
improv that I have to I have to put a
video up cuz me and Andrew Santino were
there last night making fun of it
I'll send it to you Jamie right now
because it's so ridiculous
they have shit under glass like you look
you're looking at art pieces I mean
again I don't know why they're still
producing pot in Mexico with you guys
have it have it in the stratosphere as
far as an art form I'm gonna send you
this right now Jamie yeah well they
definitely have it down now but it's
just it shouldn't be illegal in the
first place and that's not hurting
anybody I just
there's a bunch of there's a large
shamanism and occultism all over Mexico
and mushrooms and we use down there for
scent like forever
yeah and you know growing up stuff like
you would see it and it was you know the
demonization comes from the conflict
around it not that it's right you know
when it comes to things like this like
it's just weed it's just weed man that's
an antique road show type level style
produce is that they give you a
magnifying glass and they had all these
displays with it this is a hybrid this
is an indica strong hybrid this is a
sativa straw sativa dominant are you
supposed to smell it that glass good
questions yeah right the right doors
have a little jar that you can smell
through it's a very good question we
would just grab all of it machetes and
just put it in a big pile and just chop
it up and look it up or the wind coming
from over there
Wow yeah you know you would get a pass
after that so it was fine you got a
little fucked up Oh burning all that
stuff for secondhand a better Eminem's
that was my head it was there a sense of
frustration when it was legalized in so
many states in the United States in some
regard yes what are we dying for what
are we fighting for what lost brother
exactly you know a lot of people were
killed over finding tons of pot
somewhere and now it's fine yeah now you
could just buy it and it's I mean but
you know the frustration is in isn't
with the pot itself again it's it's it's
what happens around the politics around
it the amount of money invested into
fighting it and and violence and
interests around it but the plan itself
again my my mom used to grow it and put
it in a jar with alcohol and rub it on
her muscles you know and now it's a
thing you know it's it's always it's
it's always been there you know all of a
sudden you have full full auto machine
guns protecting it and agro somewhere
and full auto machine guns in another
place people coming in there to burn it
because you shouldn't be selling it it's
just wow while I was doing it you know
my mindset was these are bad people when
I when I started you know these are bad
people that are doing drugs and later on
I was like just just just a plant
stinky plant so people are smoking it
and never never in my life did I
encounter a hyped up you know pothead
they wanted to fight you know so I was
like they should they should make this
as Colusa every would calm down didn't a
different focus different methods if of
course but you know pod when you were
talking about how everyone with a six
year plan it's not gonna work it's never
gonna work it seems to me that with the
romanticism of the cults and the way
that it's engrained in a culture and
that they look at these people like folk
heroes that this is a generational
problem many generations before it
changes and calms down and I would
struggle to think of what would be the
thing that could cause it to calm down
like what what could be the catalyst for
change yeah and and more so than things
kind of uh things are getting even more
complicated now with migrant caravans
going through through Mexico now and now
you have all these displaced people from
South America now adding on to the
problem of an already I think is the
caravan we hear about it on the news
like from Fox News talks about it like
scare tactics so I was
I don't know and people can fact check
me on this but I was probably one of the
first ones to publicly say that they
were going to go
the first care but it's gonna go
straight to Tijuana everybody was now
they're not gonna go straight to Hana
there this is too far off they should
just go to Texas and they went straight
to Tijuana and you know there were about
3,000 strong when they got there maybe a
bit more and you know the the bunch of
memes came up because of it as they were
going through all the Mexico most of the
people were pretty welcoming because
they weren't gonna stay you know they
were like you know here's a lot like
when somebody is doing a job right
marathon they would hand a bottled water
bottle in you good riddance they finally
got to TJ and TJ is very conservative
like politically is very conservative
place and they met with a wall of
protesters wearing make Tijuana great
again hats no yes no yes and I may or
may not have produced a few of those
myself and and all of a sudden you see
the mayor of Tijuana with a make him
make the quanta great again hand on his
head and the reason why they were so
adverse to these guys coming in is that
they were a lot of them gang members you
know 14 Street gang members the reason
why they didn't go the other route is
because they would have to have crossed
Los Zetas territory was a cartel that
has problems with the 14 gang so they
were curtailing that they were
complaining about the food they were
getting at the shelters this is a third
world country feeding durable migrants
and we were feeding them tortillas and
beans and there's a famous lady that was
like I'm not gonna eat this this is pig
I was Pig mean it's trolling on another
level Wow so these guys came in but
people started calling MEC the the
people from Tijuana racist to brown
people who Tijuana raced against other
brown people Wow and you would see some
of the the you know some of the news
agencies from the US come down and
volunteer groups who hippies you know
with sending all their donations to
these people and some of these major
Caravan camps they would
grab the donations turn around and sell
it on the backside you know all these
things they would sell the backside so
we would they were we had just absorbed
about two thousand three towels and
Haitian immigrants after the earthquake
in Tijuana no problems at all they're
integrated into the culture all of a
sudden now we have Haitians in the
culture you know no problem at all but
these guys came in and they were really
kind of disruptive in that way right so
you know do you think it was all the
attention they were getting yeah that's
what they wanted you know they wanted to
create some sort of situation on the
border so they rushed the border a few
times I was I was around there when they
the famous picture of the lady with the
kids running towards the border happened
it they were throwing rocks at the
Border Patrol's
they put Border Patrol guys and that's
you know they got the gas in you know in
response and that's when she was running
away yeah
and they had people there throwing rocks
yeah that they threw rocks constantly
that was everything and it's funny how a
photo can give you a totally different
perspective anybody that's doubting any
of this go down on Tijuana and ask the
people in Tijuana Tijuana people did not
want those people there they saw them as
disruptive crime went up one of the
campus that they have was next to a
school the school had to be shut down
because of all the needles and stuff
that was competing and getting found
outside of the playground the school it
was a mess a nightmare and then we would
see it on the news and it was like
flowers and you know the narrative was
like I don't know what these guys are
talking about well Trump is such a
polarizing figure than anything that
would would be anti-immigration like
that like antimatter they just don't
want to hear it but they've you know the
Yalie the weird thing is how a lot of
people love Mexicans like Trump you know
yeah which is really well yeah why is
that I think the whole art I'm gonna
defend our people type thing mm-hmm
that's like that yeah and a lot and
people have to remember most Mexicans
are very conservative
you know Catholic conservative you guys
so it kind of resonates with them a
little but you know again we're divided
as well as you guys are politically so
there's a lot of a lot of to the left
type leaning people down there so they
you know again narrative
divide and conquer but the people on the
left what is their perspective on the
Margaery Caravan Oh support it you know
open the borders you know let him fuck
they're not boots on the ground no well
they're not not that you're not boots on
the ground their cities are not the ones
that are hosting all these people right
right right they're not right there
yeah it's going down they don't have a
realistic perspective yeah it's a
narrative so imagine these caravan came
into TJ and affected the businesses the
cross-border and tourism business of all
the people that live there mm-hmm so a
lot of businesses actually closed down
because of these people coming in really
and yeah and the only reason they came
in you know was to disrupt and create an
international scene which is what
exactly what they did so did they plan
on actually trying to get across or they
were planning on jumping the fence and
claiming asylum and asylum on the other
side and the famous lady freeholders
that I kind of made famous on my
Instagram account she jumped a fence
claimed asylum went to Texas and then
her and her sister assaulted somebody
somewhere and then she got arrested got
deported probably so you know that's
kind of the story of these people and
then you would attract some of these
people on social media so they would be
all poor in the mire carob and videos
they would have on the news and then you
would see them on their social media
accounts from back home Louie Vuitton
bags it's not like that you know maybe a
fake one but still you know they were
fun thick they're flossing you know it's
it's a weird dynamic on the border and
as far as I I think it's being utilized
in a lot of ways as a political type
thing is currently because of the
president you guys have up here and it
corrected from wrong but they they do
make an effort to not go into tourist
areas into resort areas and the cartel
well this is the thing because they own
it or they have investments in it that's
well so like if you go to puta Mita or
something like that you think they have
investments it's in their best interest
of have things you know quiet yeah a lot
of people so I do a lot of training as
for do a lot of classes stuff like that
travel safety things and people are
amazed with some of the cases that I
bring a fourth that
they think they're gonna get abducted or
drugged by the cartels and some
discotheque somewhere down there yeah
and it's usually American Americans
traveling down there doing their thing
down there against other Americans and
then coming back up it's a perfect deal
crime oh really
yeah there's low did not happen with a
guy who killed his girlfriend down there
yeah there's a case of something like
that where in the Caribbean if that
makes sense like there would be a good
way to get rid of some of those cases
made a mistake the cartel got her I miss
her so much man a lot of the a lot of
the the drug gangs that happen there
down there during that Spring Break type
era that type of timeframe mm-hmm it's
always Americans against Americans kind
of doing this and people think it's the
cartels or drugging people no it's
sometimes it's Americans taking
advantage of the whole being in the
foreign land type thing I was staying
with my family and put Tomita at the
four seasons
and we we they we have these golf carts
and you can take the golf carts out of
the resort and you know like when we
take the golf carts to the town they're
like sure go ahead
we leave the resort the first thing you
see is military vehicle armored with
soldiers standing at the border of the
fucking four seasons with machine guns
on the roof of this thing standing there
ready to rock case anything goes down
yeah they're probably waiting for the
rival cartel guys to come through so
again a lot of these people who
legitimize their businesses your years
back so a lot of the money in those in
those resorts probably probably trace it
back to cartel interests Wow so it's
just deep because it permeates the
entire culture yes it's it's it's it's
part of the business my model and you
know a lot of the money moves around
down there there's some sort of
relationship with it Jesus Christ man
it's kind of feel for you for a guy like
you who gave your blood sweat and tears
and was a part of trying to stop this it
must feel so strange to watch this
nightmare sort of play out you know
Mountain so being up here and most of my
friends for some reason I have attracted
so many like Marines to my life
why a lot I have a few seal friends and
most mostly just crazy marine guys and
I've been learning about what post
conflict is post conflict or being a
veteran a combat marinates is through
them through their eyes mm-hmm
you know things like post-traumatic
stress disorder and and and stuff like
that is TBI are things that I didn't
even know we're a thing till that came
up here no one talks about it in Mexico
it doesn't exist it's not you know it's
not discussed know you if you go into a
situation and you you know do something
somewhere you get a few days off you
know that's about it and come back to
work
Wow and medical wise you know you like
I've been discovering all these issues I
have from that experience down there and
it's like what kind of issues yeah my
nose is pretty as pretty husband's
pretty substantially destroyed and my I
have a few you know head injuries and
now I didn't know what they were you
know I just it stress you know where on
the body it's my age I'm 36 I shouldn't
be feeling like this you know and
through them they kind of pointed me and
like you probably have this because this
is what I had because I was in Iraq it's
like I wasn't in Iraq might as well been
in Iraq well that's that's the thing
that the the the and and also you guys
recognize your veterans you know no not
enough not enough there's no such thing
as a veteran down there you know
somebody somebody but my asshole friends
marine friends I gave me a Mexican drug
war veteran hat because all they all
those guys had their own hats you know
so I think a Mexican drug war better
than hat and had an eagle you know being
strangled by a snake and it was pretty
funny you know but it but it made me
realize how there's a bunch of guys that
Mexican amazing things and they're
getting a recognition because it's a war
that they deny right there's nothing
happened there's no war happening this
is so good the cartels and but there's
no war you know even the current
president said you know this is the end
of the drug war because I said so
kind of
oh so there's no war anymore okay
because why the boys over did you have
any involvement is barely related but
did you have any involvement no anybody
that had any involvement with those
Mormon cults that are down there yes I
do know people that in the horrors
region that some of the Mitt Romney's
family members in that region area yeah
I knew some federal I know some Federal
Police guys and military guys that were
curious about the amount of firearms
that these guys have because they had
some they basically fought the cartels
off how crazy is that well it's you know
it's pretty it's pretty interesting
being there and finding a white guy that
speaks amazing English and it was porn
in Mexico and he's in there are Mormons
they're Mormons and they they have to
get like a visa to travel to us but
people don't know that like Mitt
Romney's dad the reason why Mitt
Romney's dad never ran for presidents
cuz he was born in Mexico yeah yeah yeah
I mean there's a lot there's a lot of
white Mexicans which is another one
thing that people don't help or Canelo
Louie CK yeah Louie CK Mexico Canelo
yeah
anybody that's of Irish ancestry if you
go into a bar in Mexico some bars in
Mexico you can probably get some free
drinks if you tell me why rich because
the Irish betrayed the Americans in the
last Mexico American war and a lot of
them stayed down there and married some
of the locals Irish last name on one
quarter that's how you got a problem
right yeah the that the the the the
Mormon community in that area basically
a few of their members got abducted yeah
and the cartels were you know wanted to
do more against them and these guys
apparently got some high-powered
long-range rifles and they were shooting
at these people from afar and they set
up this whole security apparatus around
their town and the Mexican government
basically looked the other way and kind
of said well it's fine and just don't
you know don't be get too crazy with it
yeah there was some sort of interaction
as far as uh them trying to appease
things with them you know because
realistically the the town that they're
that they made out there is a paradise I
mean amongst other towns in that area
it's a beautiful place really the
beautiful plates very organized what is
it called this it Jamie this is a Mormon
little town so what kind of military did
they have that protects this town like
if they've they've made their own
military so I actually got to do a few
reconnaissance things there just this
this is passing by and what I saw that
they had were a bunch of basically
machine-gun nest on some of the hilltops
and they lit the the limited the amount
of access points to that little town so
they had the bare basically there what
happened when the people got abducted I
think one of them got killed and then
you know they wanted to kill other
people and there was this whole thing
they went to the government for help and
they didn't say anything so somehow they
you know procured firearms down there so
they start defending their own what a
strange story that is because they left
the United States when polygamy was
illegal yes when they started making
polygamy illegal in Utah they went well
we'll just go to Mexico because back
when they did it there wasn't even cars
so it was like no big deal to live in
Mexico like you're riding a fucking
horse no matter where you are yeah no
didn't no difference no and they said
we'll go over here but it is a nice I
mean again
it's a weird American like town in the
middle of Juarez I mean how many people
go Ayla
it's probably the thousands tens of
thousands maybe Wow
yeah all Mormons all Mormons and a lot
of Mexican converts now so really yeah
there's a lot of Mexican converts down
there as well and are there more than
one family more than one of these towns
I think so yeah yeah there's a lot of
there's a lot of family names or in that
region they're kind of famous you know
one of the Barons are one of those but
it's only this one town it's it's one
upset there's there's a few out there
there's a few there's a few more Murray
communities out there Wow
it's all the same sort of deal armed to
the tits the discretely armed you know I
don't know if it's it's open as it was
but it's it would be back then and when
it was really rowdy they were they were
openly doing you know things to keep
people from not coming to their town and
their full-on Mexican citizens yes
Wow but there but they speak English in
their wine so it's they don't speak
Spanish some of them do but they don't
need to because they live in this
community they don't go out of it a lot
so you know it's a wait it's a weird
place
that's fucking really weird yeah yeah
yeah just like and when you when you're
over here and you look at do you see it
any differently from looking at it just
looking at the situation over there and
how crazy Mexico is from America like
how ignorant Americans are to how bad it
really is yeah I mean so I've been up
here for four years now as a resident
right and I came up here at the weirdest
time probably in the US history as far
as you know when I was going through my
immigration process Trump you know got
elected so it was pretty interesting you
know and you know being pulled to the
both sides of the political spectrum you
know you and seeing how people would
talk about Mexico in ways that were like
you know realistic or you know just
weird things that you would hear it's
like that's not how it is you know
that's not how it happens it was a big
misconception that it's a Mexico problem
only and that the the
and the cartels are out here in the u.s.
- you know they're not they're
everywhere outside the border the border
thing is like that's a border but
they're on both sides you know there's
definitely cartel here in the u.s. so
then most Americans are getting thinking
of it is a foreign problem mmm it's
foreign if you live far from the border
maybe you know but you know it's it's
everywhere it's everywhere
that's one thing that I always see like
and also that that it's a problem that
Mexico should fix itself you know that's
a lot they also hear that no they should
fix their own shit yeah but they're only
them you know the problems down there
you know stem from firearms and money
coming from up here and the big drug
market and you know the money going into
some corrupt hands down there had times
and and basically them burning the
manual every six years and just starting
anew on their fight and the cars anybody
else say this other than you like does
anybody say that politically over there
I there's a few people there's a few
people I was actually in charge of the
governor of bajas security detail
towards for two years - almost three
years I was put there because he was a
very good friend of Felipe Calderon he
was compadre and he was very high level
and you know there was a lot of threats
in his life and again he was heading up
the tip of the spear for the counter
cartel operations and the whole of
Mexico and he implemented a plan and TJ
that was then replicated throughout the
country and he would be very vocal in
his encounter cartel rhetoric and how we
could do better and how we should all
work together
he developed these groups called boon
groups basically army municipal police
state police all of them working
together in these operations groups and
just going out there and it's the
jurisdiction of everybody here to do
whatever we need to do and he was pretty
you know instrumental his name was a
tsunami young and he's out of politics
now and he had a lot of threats on his
life and it was pretty interesting
working with him he's
one of those people think that all
politicians corrupt out there it's not
true there's some good ones he was
wasn't definitely I work directly with
him and I and I could tell you he was a
he was one of those good ones and
Lieutenant Colonel Azolla who's now
running for mayor of Tijuana he's one of
those vocal guys there's a reason why
he's been try to kill them nine times
you know he's saying something you know
he's he's represents something right
there are good people down there willing
to fight it's just that you know there's
a lot of more bad people wanting to kill
you must have seen some horrific shit
over the course of your career yeah yes
yes bodies the the brutality torture all
that all that type of stuff
downer again I tell people working down
there is the closest thing to the Wild
West you have currently it's basically
people and when the people say third
world country there's a lot of
cosmopolitan places just across the
border that aren't necessarily alien to
Americanize all right
you know I imagine all this you know
crazy things happening down there like
there was a famous firefight in Tijuana
the cupola which is basically there was
a big cartel stronghold inside of this
castle type thing you know it had a big
giant dome on top of it the cupola a
shootout and when you when that happened
basically a bunch of everybody responded
to this thing and it was next to a
school and kids were being evacuated
from and it was pretty horrific a lot of
the people on the inside they had a lot
of people abducted on the inside and
they had they basically executed all of
them and some of the people on the
inside with the cartel guys would put
zip ties on themselves and you know
kneel down the ground so they were you
would think it was them and you saw a
uniformed police officers inside of
there shooting outside two uniformed
police officers so you would see how the
crazy corruption and you know le
shootout happens bank robbery two guys
with ak-47 North Hollywood that one
militarized the whole policing in the
United States that type of thing happens
in t in may in Mexico in Mexico every
day another gap it's nothing changes you
know that's that's that's crazy part
you know how how somehow that just is
part of the normal now down there
nothing changes
no no adjustments no adjustments no
evolution you know these guys used to
roll around dressed as cops with cloned
vehicles and now they roll around in
taxicabs and are more discreet and how
they move these guys used to use drug
mules and drug tunnel Sally use unmanned
drones and other means to cross their
drugs so they're always kind of evolving
and adjusting and the government is
trying to smash it with a hammer for the
past you know 10 15 20 years just
whack-a-mole whack-a-mole
what made you start your Instagram
account because your Instagram accounts
excellent it's ed manifesto and it's all
you you talk so much about the problems
that are going on over there and you
also do a lot of situational awareness
stuff you show what's wrong with this
picture
yeah what you see here yeah main thing
was when I started I was still active
down there so it was kind of like a
reporting you know mm-hmm so I was
trying to share things with people to
try and you know raise awareness but
after that became more of a thing of I
just spent over a decade working in this
environment down here and I have nothing
to show for it
so I need to take that experience and
make it worth it for people to share
some of that experience with other
people and to make it you know just to
make it I had to justify to myself just
I need to make it worth worth the while
worth my while to haven't done that
there's not a lot of people doing what
you're doing though no no I think the
the the the strange thing about me is my
English and the fact that I worked on
the border so I had the opportunity to
cross that border and you know share
some of those experience of here like
I've been to the FBI Academy so real you
know this kid from TJ is now at the FBI
Academy showing some weird some weird
people
hmm Secret Service Academy some lose
some of your SF guys have you know
contact contacted me and I've done work
for them and
I'd show them like wow had like that
trick to get our handcuffs that's pretty
cool where did you learn that like who
showed you that 15 year old kid you know
and TJ showed me how to flip handcuffs
in and weaponize them that's pretty
gnarly fuck them and weaponize them yeah
so there's ways of releasing your
handcuffs and flipping the side of the
arm of the handcuffs so it looks like
it's still on but it isn't
and somebody approaches you and you flip
it open and use that thing as a meat
hook and a 15 year old kid showed me
that after we applied tried to apply
that on one of our guys and that's the
stuff I wrote on in my little manifesto
it was basically a manifest it was a
notebook I would write all these things
down document most of them and when I
would come over here in the US to do
training like I did some training with
NCIS and in Coronado during my career
and some of those guys were team that I
seal guys that's how I met a few of them
and they were like hey ed this is how we
do executive protection and in the
Middle East I was like wow that's how I
would do it or I crossed the border
right down here what yes yeah what
really yeah Wow
that's crazy god yeah and you know we'd
show them a flash drive with a bunch of
pictures from stuff down there and they
would like be blown away by it and
sharing information and and and kind of
that basically making use of that
experience a lot of people down there a
mute they don't share that experience
they don't think it's worth anything I
think I realized that that experience in
that gnarly place is worth something to
at least as far as sharing it yeah not a
lot of people think that you know kind
of you know we downplay ourselves we
have this problem in Mexico most
Mexicans are very doubtful about
themselves you know there's a like where
Mexicans like what what what would we
have to share with these high-level guys
you know and you know being in a place
like that low means low equipment low
training being creative that's a lot of
things that come up from those that
experience of being you know solution
wise as far as you know keeping safe
well I think part of the problem with
the United States in Mexico is our view
of Mexico and someone like you what you
provide is a real
list expected and real information real
photographs real stories go and just
enough and then this conversation just
enough where enough people hear it it'll
shift the the idea of what is happening
in Mexico a little bit that I mean I
again thank you for for this invitation
and I thank you I have a like I've I
have this uh weird comparison that I
have with you as far as you know this
podcast it's got I've listened to it way
back when you know and I remember this
whole feeling of being around a campfire
in hearing people talk about their
things and kind of you know passing the
pipe that's it's pretty interesting
that's something I've only kind of seen
as far as exchanging information of that
like around campfires or shamans or
sweat lodging type situations down there
a lot of our guys were native so they
would you I will get invited to these
sweat lodges stuff like that you know
you get that exchange of information but
yeah I definitely start talking about it
that's the first step and a lot of
people don't want to talk about it
because of fear know people are like hey
aren't you afraid of talking about this
so I was afraid for 12 years yes I am
but I I know that nobody else is gonna
going to so I if not anybody else you
know well if you stop and think about
how many guys have worked on the board
or how many guys have worked in these
counterinsurgency operations and how few
were talking about it and how many of
them died nobody knows where they are
all right how many are still out there
nobody knows where they are or you know
Sicario that movie Saqqara yeah those
people are looking at that movie so a
lot of the followers just suspicious of
that van detail total having an mp5 I
was the only Mexican rocking an mp5
submachine gun down there right so
that's like that is that you know what
did you think of those movies horrible
horrible unrealistic you know they
should hey if somebody doesn't hire me
I'll do it for free just you know I'll
consult for free on that and I'll make
it look a bit more closer to what it is
but it's the main thing is how how I
everybody saw that movie and that that's
how they would you know that's that's a
reality you know how
is kind of a basis for reality so
Sicario 2 comes out and it's basically
the United States declaring the cartels
a terrorist organization you know and I
saw that and I was like hmm
usually fiction kind of pre kind of has
a way of influencing reality further
online you know that Denzel Washington
movie called siege were budget
terrorists attack New York and then
militarized New York and that's kind of
like a president for 9/11 mm-hmm so you
see Sicario too and then you know we're
gonna terrorists Trump now says they're
gonna just thinking about declaring the
cartels as a terrorist organization
that's pretty interesting
mainly because realistically Mexico has
been calling them terrorists forever
yeah what did you think about that about
Trump doing that do you think that that
actually is something that can happen if
you're gonna militarize efforts against
it and not just consider two law
enforcement type situation I think
people should be afraid down there if
you do go that route but just realize
that's gonna be open warfare not in a
foreign country across the ocean that's
gonna be right next to your border yeah
where people can walk across yes or make
things happen down there that will
affect you up here yeah in a very real
way you know and it'll get ugly before
it gets better
you know III hopefully doesn't you know
but that's realistic but if that doesn't
happen if they don't treat it as a
terrorist organization and try to have
some sort of impact on it what could be
done I mean I think I think culturally
they're trying to get us ready for that
you know hmm I don't know I mean I think
that's what's that's what's happening
you see a lot of the cross you know
borders US military assets training
Mexican Marines down there and having a
open relationship with them you see that
and that the push is to maybe you know
preparing for something you know I think
they're preparing for something you know
what what could that be I don't know so
the what we get about it publicly is
just a small sliver of the actual
conversations that are being had
and and also there's a lot of you know
misdirection there's a lot of
misdirection I'm personally yeah but
listen II D I really appreciate you
coming down here and enlightening us and
telling us all about this and I really
appreciate appreciate your Instagram
account and they the Instagram account
is at manifesto what else you have a
surrounded medium its manifesto on
Facebook as well and its manifesto calm
all right beautiful
thank you brother appreciate it man
thanks for coming in here thank you bye
everybody
[Music]